Add sunsynk web integration documentation (#32941)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/sunsynkweb.markdown

---
title: Sunsynk web
description: Home Assistant integration to gather statistics from [Sunsynk connect](http://sunsynk.org) REST API
ha_category:
  - Energy
  - Sensor
ha_release: TBD
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@francoisverbeek'
ha_domain: sunsynkweb
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_config_flow: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> This is an integration to gather statistics from [Sunsynk connect](http://sunsynk.org). It exposes real-time and historical information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Sunsynk web** {% term integration %} gathers statistics from [Sunsynk connect](http://sunsynk.org). It exposes real-time and historical information.
```

> This will log into your Sunsynk account and will collate the information of any plants or inverters and present the main sensors for the plant, real-time and historical.

Reviewer: If there are any Prerequisites required (Sunsynk account, login credentials, ...) before I can add the integration, or while I'm adding the integration, these should be listed in a **Prerequisites** section.

> {% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Reviewer: After the config flow, please add section explaining what kind of sensors are provided by this integration.

| `pv_power`              |  Power generated by solar panels instantaneous            |  
| `state_of_charge`       |  Solar battery charge                                     |  
| `acc_pv`                |  Total PV generated energy                                |  
| `acc_load`              |  Total energy consumed                                    |  
| `acc_grid_import`       |  Total energy imported from the grid                      |  
| `acc_grid_export`       |  Total energy exported to the grid                        |  
| `acc_battery_charge`    |  Accumulated energy charged into the batteries            |  
| `acc_battery_discharge` |  Accumulated energy discharged from the batteries         |

## Other considerations

The Sunsynk web API and website seem to be rebranded [e-linter](https://www.e-linter.com) services.
Currently, the underlying wrapper [pysunsybkweb](https://github.com/francoisverbeek/pysunsynkweb) has hardcoded
references to Sunsynk. If you are using another brand that uses the same underlying service, get in touch, we may
be able to extend the support to additional tenants of e-linter's infrastructure.

## Disclaimer

> This work is done without Sunsynk or E-linter's involvement or endorsement, based on public documentation.

Reviewer: not sure about the spelling of e-linter. I see the variant E-linter and e-liner on this page. On their own website, the version I saw was E-LINTER.

---
title: Sunsynk web
description: Home Assistant integration to gather statistics from [Sunsynk connect](http://sunsynk.org) REST API
ha_category:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Sunsynk web
description: Home Assistant integration to gather statistics from [Sunsynk connect](http://sunsynk.org) REST API
ha_category:

- Energy
- Sensor
ha_release: TBD
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
- '@francoisverbeek'
ha_domain: sunsynkweb
ha_platforms:
- sensor
ha_config_flow: true
ha_integration_type: integration

---

The **Sunsynk web** {% term integration %} gathers statistics from [Sunsynk connect](http://sunsynk.org). It exposes real-time and historical information.

This will log into your Sunsynk account and will collate the information of any plants or inverters and present the main sensors for the plant, real-time and historical.

## Prerequisites

> To use this integration you will need a sunsynk-branded e-linter [wifi dongle](https://www.sunsynk.org/logger-support) for your inverter(s) and a [Sunsynk connect](Sunsynk.net) account. This will typically be created by your installer on your behalf. The account needs at least the 'visitor' permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this integration, you will need a sunsynk-branded e-linter [wifi dongle](https://www.sunsynk.org/logger-support) for your inverter(s) and a [Sunsynk connect](Sunsynk.net) account. This will typically be created by your installer on your behalf. The account needs at least the 'visitor' permissions.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Sensors

> The integration exposes the following sensors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration exposes the following sensors:
```

> If you have multiple plants (inverters), the sensors represent an aggregated
> view of the relevant sensors. For instance battery state of charge, in a typical installation,
> as the batteries are on a shared bus, is the max of battery charge reported by both inverters,
> while load power will be the sum of the load on each inverter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple plants (inverters), the sensors represent an aggregated
view of the relevant sensors. For example: in a typical installation, the battery state of charge is the maximum battery charge reported by both inverters. This is because the batteries are on a shared bus. 
The load power will be the sum of the load on each inverter.
```
Rephrased it a bit, hoping to make this easier to read. Please check if the meaning is still correct.

Author: it's clearer, I agree, thanks a lot

The energy totals produce statistics that are usable with the energy dashboard.

> | id                      | description                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ID                     | Description                                               |
```

| ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `battery_power`         |  Solar supply battery power                               |
| `load_power`            |  Total inverter load                                      |  
| `grid_power`            |  Load to or from the grid instantaneous                   |  
| `pv_power`              |  Power generated by solar panels instantaneous            |  
| `state_of_charge`       |  Solar battery charge                                     |  
| `acc_pv`                |  Total PV generated energy                                |  
| `acc_load`              |  Total energy consumed                                    |  
| `acc_grid_import`       |  Total energy imported from the grid                      |  
| `acc_grid_export`       |  Total energy exported to the grid                        |  
| `acc_battery_charge`    |  Accumulated energy charged into the batteries            |  
| `acc_battery_discharge` |  Accumulated energy discharged from the batteries         |

## Other considerations

> The Sunsynk web api and website seem to be rebranded [e-linter](https://www.e-linter.com) services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sunsynk web API and website seem to be rebranded [e-linter](https://www.e-linter.com) services.
```

> Currently the underlying wrapper [pysunsybkweb](https://github.com/francoisverbeek/pysunsynkweb) has hardcoded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the underlying wrapper [pysunsybkweb](https://github.com/francoisverbeek/pysunsynkweb) has hardcoded
```
